Welcome back everyone to complete this section of the course we're going to briefly discuss tensor board
tensor board is a visualization tool from Google designed to work in conjunction with tensor flow to
visualize various aspects of your model.
Here we will simply understand how to view the tensor board dashboard in our browser and analyze an
existing model.
A really important note here is that this lecture requires you that you understand file paths and the
current location of either your notebook that you're working in or your dot pi file.
So keep that in mind.
We did a review some of these topics in the pan this input output lecture so you may want to review
that.
Now keep in mind tensor board is technically a separate library from tensor flow.
So he aren't using our environment file.
You may need to pip install or condense stored tensor board.
In addition the tensor flow if you're using the Google collab notebook online the Google official guide
actually has a premade notebook that you just run all the cells and it automatically uploads tensor
board for you.
I have the URL here but we're also going to just show you how you can find that and we link to it in
our notebook or you can just google search tensor board in notebooks and I'll have that link as well.
OK let's get started by heading over to our folder from our zip file.
OK.
Here I am underneath the aliens folder.
Go ahead and open up the tensor board notebook that we have here for you at 0 5 dash tensor board.
What we're going to be doing is we're going to be creating an intensive board running off the network.
We originally created in our Caris classification lecture.
So when you open up that tensor board notebook it should look something like this.
And there's a link here for the full official tutorial that discusses a lot of cool aspects of tensor
board.
We're really just going to be going over the basics in this particular lecture.
But if you click on that link it has this getting started link and what's really cool about this is
if you're using Google collab all you need to do is you can essentially almost skip this lecture just
open up this link that says running Google collab and it has this getting started with tensor board
notebook that you can essentially run all the cells and it has everything done automatically for you.
Keep in mind it's going to be using a slightly different model here.
It's doing an M honest convolution on your own network that we'll see later on in the course.
But the same ideas are the same you'll create a log directory create some callbacks and then fit it.
And we're gonna be going over this as well in our lecture right now.
So you can go ahead and watch our lecture and then just click on this link and then run this notebook
and you should be able to actually see tensor board inside of your notebook so let's come back here
and we'll show you how to run this.
If you're running it locally.
Again if you're uncle collab pretty much just click on that link and start running the cells but we're
gonna import pansies and PDA num PI read in the data file that we work to that cancer classification
we'll go ahead and grab those values perform the train test split and then scale the data.
So far nothing different.
And then we'll also create the model.
So we'll create the model.
I'm also going to add in the early stopping but one notice or one thing to notice here is that we're
importing an additional callback so from carriers that callbacks you will also be importing tensor board.
So even if you don't import early stopping for your particular model in order to actually compile and
have tensor board keep track of those logs we're going to from Carousel callbacks import tensor board
we'll go ahead and create the early stopping callback just as we did last time and then we're going
to make sure we understand where this notebook is located.
By running P.W..
So in my case I have now the file path of where this notebook is actually located.
All right.
So now it's time to actually get to probably the most important part which is creating this tensor board
callback.
So again tensor board it's a visualization tool.
And what's going to happen is this callback that we're going to create with this tensor board import.
It's going to log a bunch of things.
And it's up to you what it logs and what it doesn't log.
So it can log things like a training graph visualization activation histogram is sampled profiling metric
summary plots et cetera.
So there are various arguments the pass when creating a tense report a callback variable to indicate
whether or not you want to record something.
So the most important one is right here.
Log directory which is essentially the file path to the logs and we'll show you how to fill that in
in just a second.
The other ones are just whether or not you want to keep recording something.
So the histogram frequency is the frequency in epochs at which to compute activation and weight histogram
for the layers of the model.
So what we're going to do is we're going to set this to 1.
So that basically after every epoch of training we'll go ahead and calculate all the weights for our
layers and then we'll create a histogram of it.
And then the next epoch will do another histogram so we'll actually be able to see these histogram is
essentially stacked on top of each other and we'll get this kind of cool 3d visualization that shows
how the weights are essentially changing throughout the epochs of training.
And then if you want you can also visualize the graph itself so we can set right graph and we can set
that to true.
We can also decide whether or not we want to write images.
So whether to write model weights to visualize as an image and tensor board and then the update frequency
is also something you can choose.
Typically I would recommend updating per epoch it's usually easier to interpret that way.
And then finally we can also specify a profile batch so we can profile the batch to sample compute characteristics.
By default we can profile by the second batch.
So we'll keep it on that default and then embedding is frequency is the frequency in epochs which embedding
layers will be visualized if you set that to zero.
You won't bother with visualizing those embedding.
So lots of different things there.
The other thing to note here is if you're running this model multiple times with different parameters
and you want to make sure you have different directories for each time you run this model.
What I recommend doing and this is also the exact same thing they setup in the official tutorial.
You'll notice as you scroll down they'll set it up with a date timestamp.
So right here they call it date time date time.
Essentially what that does is if you say from date time import date time and then you say let me just
zoom in here so you can see this clearly daytime thought now and then structure the time with this particular
command you'll get this string which indicates today's date and the hour and what you can do is have
that be the name your folder that way as long as you wait one minute before running your model again.
You'll have a unique log for each time you run the model that we can go back at at the number of neurons
in a layer et cetera and visualize each of those models with tensor board now.
In our case we're only going to run this one time so we'll go ahead just set our log directory to logs.
And since I'm on windows I'll say backslash backslash fit if you're a MacOS or Linux you may need to
do just one backslash or even a forward slash.
What I recommend doing is if you come back up here.
Notice after you type TWD it actually reports back to you.
The syntax you should be using.
So I should be using double back slashes.
So that's what I'm going to do down here.
So you're logged directory.
The base of it should always be logs.
And then the next sub directory should be fit.
So after I run this inside of my current location this ancient folder I will end up seeing a folder
called logs be created and then a folder inside that called it.
So we must say logs fit and then optionally you can add a timestamp for unique folder.
So this is the code that automatically does that for you.
OK so right now we have this variable log directory which is essentially saying where am I going to
say these logs during training.
And by default it should be logs.
So I pass that in as my dirt log directory I'll say histogram frequency is one and then we'll go ahead
say right graph.
True.
Right.
Image is true.
Update the frequencies every epoch.
We'll keep profile back to two because that's the default and then embedding is frequency we'll keep
that at one and you can play around with these options as well.
Based off what you read here and what you actually want to record.
So we'll go ahead and create that call back.
And now just as before we'll go ahead and create the same model.
You actually don't need to edit anything in your model.
So we'll just run that model just as we did before where you actually add this in is underneath our
callbacks list instead of just passing an early stop as we did before.
We will also pass in this variable board which recall is this tensor board callback that we just created.
So after you create the model go ahead and fit the model.
OK so this is going to be training.
And because I have early stopping here it shouldn't be training for the full six hundred epochs.
I think last time it stopped at a little over one hundred and twenty.
So we'll just go ahead and let this run for a little bit and eventually it should stop training once
it reaches somewhere above that.
OK.
So here's 126 early stopping.
Perfect.
OK.
So now we're going to run tensor board.
So instead of running our own visualizations let's see what tensor board has to offer.
The first thing to note here is that tensor board is going to be running locally in your browser local
host 6 0 0 6.
Go ahead and click that and open it in a new tab.
Now because we haven't actually run tensor board yet when you run that it should just be empty you'll
say something like this site can't be reached because tensor boards not running on that yet to actually
run tensor board or we're going to do is we're going to run it through the command line.
The main thing to keep in mind is what was your log directory recall.
That's the variable we made that essentially indicates where we're actually saving our logs.
Recall that we say the under logs that in fact if you come back to the aliens folder you'll notice we
now have this logs folder and underneath that there's a fit of directory and underneath that there's
train validation and the special file for tensor board.
And these are essentially raw files that tensor board is going to use to display visualizations.
And there's more files depending on how much you're actually recording.
OK.
So the main thing keep in mind is what was your log directory in our case we kept it simple just logs
fit but you may have a longer timestamp associate of that as well.
And then the next thing to recall is where you're actually located on your computer.
So this is where I'm located on my computer.
So we need to do is go to our command line.
That's either the anaconda prompt or the command prompt for Windows users or for Mac OS or Ubuntu or
Linux users.
That will be your terminal or the anaconda prompt if you install that as a Mac OS or Linux user.
Let's go ahead and open up our command line.
So main things keep in mind is whereas this file currently located and what the name of our log directory
was OK so I will open up the anaconda prompt and now I have my anaconda prompt open.
The next step is to make sure that my course file or course environment is activated.
So I will say Conda activate and then whatever the course environment happens to be called in my case
I use a slightly different environment while I'm filming this lectures.
So I will say kind of activate TMF To GP you however your course environment will be the one you set
up during the installation lecture you should have already been activating your environment as you've
gone through these lectures.
So there shouldn't be new to you.
OK.
So you've activated the environment and now we need to do is we need to change directory or see into
this particular folder that was typed out during PDL BD so I will see these into these period data courses.
That's where I happen to be located.
Your files may be different on your computer.
And I would highly recommend that you just tab autocomplete this because if you spell anything wrong
it won't work then type C the again and the next folder.
My case is tensor float to boot camp.
Again just use tab autocomplete to make sure spelling is right.
And then finally see the into 0 3 and ends and there we have it.
Okay.
So now it's time for the command.
So the command we use is make sure you've activated your environment you should be able to type tensor
board space dash dash log D I R space and then your log directory.
So in my case my log directory I printed it out here was logs backslash fit so that I'll be logs backslash
fit and if you want to see it on one line I can stretch this out so here it is.
So the steps was to activate my environment.
Yours may be called different depending on your install lecture then S.D. into that folder where I happened
to say those logs or that notebook was running and then run tensor board space dash dash log the IRR
space and then the file path that was printed out when you printed out log directory appear in the notebook
then go ahead and hit enter upon hitting enter.
You should see some commands pop up and eventually it's going to happen is it's going to tell you hey
tensor boards running at local host 6 0 0 6 recall that's the URL we opened previously.
Whatever you do do not hit control plus C so don't do control policy to copy this local host otherwise
that actually quits this so only use control policy when you're ready to quit or we're going to do is
we're actually done with the anaconda prompt for now so we're going to come to our book in the browser
recall that we already open local host 6 0 0 6 go ahead and open that tab again and if it says this
site can't be reached you saw fit for an instance there just refresh and you should see a pop up and
just in case it doesn't.
You can always come here and then select scholars.
However if you did everything like I did it should have automatically gone to scholars for you as you
can see here in the euro.
OK so let's explore some of these.
I will zoom out just a little bit so we're not super zoomed into this tensor board and to start off
we can see our loss both on the training set and our validation set and we get this really nice interactive
plot and we can make it very smooth if we want just to get the general trends this pebble a little too
smooth or we can turn something completely off to get the raw data as we've done before.
So this is essentially an interactive version of the plots we were making before with pandas and we
can start playing around by toggling the y axis to be logarithmic.
We can turn that off and on.
We can also fit the domain to the data.
It actually does that automatically.
And then you can also do things like make it larger and zoom in.
So lots of different things could play around with if you only want to see validation.
You can do a checkbox here to see it et cetera.
So this is what we see under scholars.
You can explore that then we have images in our case.
We did actually decide to record these images and this is essentially showing you the images waits.
And as far as interpreting this for our particular set since we're not dealing with image data it's
not very clear how to interpret this.
So essentially the weights as they get kind of darker or lighter depending on what actual air on.
So we can see here the mapping but overall interpreting this isn't gonna help us that much because we're
not actually dealing of image data and you can also play around with the contrast etc. as well as the
brightness.
Then there's the graph itself.
So this is the graph we created.
They can play around with.
You can explore it.
There's a legend here showing you what each of these notes are doing.
But here's the sequential model that we created.
We can expand on that.
We can see here what we created et cetera.
Then there's the distributions the range of weights throughout these different layers.
So that's one that's two.
And then the final one.
Keep in mind as far as interpreting these directly it won't really help you that much for this particular
dataset.
This becomes a lot more helpful when you're dealing with things like convolution networks.
We can see the histogram is again as far as interpreting this directly maybe not super useful but some
of you could tell here is how much things are changing throughout time.
So for example if we just take a look at this first dense one this is the bias right now.
So these are the biased values per epoch throughout time.
So you can see in the very beginning they're kind of changing wildly but as you start to get towards
the stopping epoch notice you're not changing that much.
These history grams of these biased values is not changing which makes sense which we should expect
that as we get closer and closer to the early stopping point things are changing less and less and it's
the same for the actual weight histogram as well.
So these are histogram.
In this case of bias and the weight for that first dense layer.
So you can see they start changing rapidly in the beginning but then they start settling down towards
whatever their final weights going to be.
And we can view that for the layers.
OK.
And then depending on either side the record you can view things like profile and projector.
These are going to be super useful for us right now.
So we'll go ahead and skip these and we'll come back to tensor board when we're dealing with convolution
on your networks because then it's going to be really helpful in exploring the network.
But right now we can see that we've actually already created a lot of these images ourselves specifically
the epoch loss.
That's the one that really you're going to use a lot and we already know how to create this on our own
these Instagram's while they're kind of interesting to look at for right now there's not much you can
do as far as editing the hyper parameters on this artificial neural network just based off these diagrams
as you get more advanced you can interpret these a little better but for right now the main idea here
is that you know how to create tensor board and we're going to come back to this and explore these in
more detail as we learn about more complex models we're interpreting these graphs can really help us.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next section of the course.